MIGRATING.md, before:

# Migration guide

## 0.x -> 1.x

**_@atlas.js/core_, _@atlas.js/application_ packages are replaced with _@atlas.js/atlas_**

- Update your _package.json_ file and remove any of those packages. Then install _@atlas.js/atlas_.
- In your code, update your `import`/`require` statements to use the new package name

> With the current project structure it was difficult to properly manage releases of the _@atlas.js/core_ to follow semver. We decided to merge the two packages into one so that proper semantic versioning can be achieved.

**The `Application` class has been renamed to `Atlas`**

- In your code, replace all references of `import { Application } from '@atlas.js/core'` to `import { Atlas } from '@atlas.js/atlas'`

> `Application` was too generic. We decided to rename the class to `Atlas` to make it explicit about what you are working with.

**In components, the `Atlas` instance is now available as `this.atlas`**

- In your code, within components, change all references of `this.app` to `this.atlas`

> `app` was too generic and even conflicted with Koa's `ctx.app` (the Koa instance). We decided to rename the variable to make it obvious what you are working with.

**Configuration for Atlas is now provided via `atlas` configuration key**

- In your configuration object, change the `application` configuration key to `atlas` configuration key.

> Again, `application` was too generic. Now it is more obvious that the configuration object belongs to Atlas.

**Hook listeners have been renamed to look more like standard class methods**

- In your Hooks' code, replace all hook methods with their new names:
  - `application:prepare:after` -> `afterPrepare`
  - `application:start:before` -> `beforeStart`
  - `application:start:after` -> `afterStart`
  - `application:stop:before` -> `beforeStop`
  - `application:stop:after` -> `afterStop`

> The original idea behind such a weird function names was that it would be possible to listen for events coming from other components, ie listening for `database:start:before`. Ultimately we decided to not support such functionality at the moment.

Commit message:

docs(atlas): Add migration guide for v2, update documentation

MIGRATING.md, after:

# Migration guide

## 1.x -> 2.x

**Major hooks improvements**

- All hooks must now declare exactly which component they want to to observe, via a `static observes = 'component:name'`
  > This static `observes` property should be a string and it should be a component's name. When that component's state changes or when that component dispatches a custom event, this hook will receive that event. To observe changes in the state of Atlas itself, set this property to `atlas`.

- Hook execution order has been changed
  > Now that each hook must declare exactly which component's state it wants to observe, we were able to rework their execution order. Previously, the order was as follows:
  >
  > - Dispatch the `beforeStart` event to all hooks
  > - Start all services
  > - Dispatch the `afterStart` event to all hooks
  >
  > Now the order more closely resembles an "observer" pattern:
  >
  > - Pick a service
  > - For that service, find all hooks which want to observe this service's events
  > - Trigger the `beforeStart` or `beforeStop` event for all these observers
  > - Start or stop the service
  > - Trigger the `afterStart` or `afterStop` event for all these observers
  > - Move on to the next service
  >
  > This behaviour should avoid lots of strange errors which used to occur in the 1.x release line during failed start/stop sequence. Atlas itself should no longer hang the Node.js process when the startup or shutdown sequence fails due to one component failing to start or stop (unless the failing component already has some active listeners registered).

## 0.x -> 1.x

**_@atlas.js/core_, _@atlas.js/application_ packages are replaced with _@atlas.js/atlas_**

- Update your _package.json_ file and remove any of those packages. Then install _@atlas.js/atlas_.
- In your code, update your `import`/`require` statements to use the new package name

> With the current project structure it was difficult to properly manage releases of the _@atlas.js/core_ to follow semver. We decided to merge the two packages into one so that proper semantic versioning can be achieved.

**The `Application` class has been renamed to `Atlas`**

- In your code, replace all references of `import { Application } from '@atlas.js/core'` to `import { Atlas } from '@atlas.js/atlas'`

> `Application` was too generic. We decided to rename the class to `Atlas` to make it explicit about what you are working with.

**In components, the `Atlas` instance is now available as `this.atlas`**

- In your code, within components, change all references of `this.app` to `this.atlas`

> `app` was too generic and even conflicted with Koa's `ctx.app` (the Koa instance). We decided to rename the variable to make it obvious what you are working with.

**Configuration for Atlas is now provided via `atlas` configuration key**

- In your configuration object, change the `application` configuration key to `atlas` configuration key.

> Again, `application` was too generic. Now it is more obvious that the configuration object belongs to Atlas.

**Hook listeners have been renamed to look more like standard class methods**

- In your Hooks' code, replace all hook methods with their new names:
  - `application:prepare:after` -> `afterPrepare`
  - `application:start:before` -> `beforeStart`
  - `application:start:after` -> `afterStart`
  - `application:stop:before` -> `beforeStop`
  - `application:stop:after` -> `afterStop`

> The original idea behind such a weird function names was that it would be possible to listen for events coming from other components, ie listening for `database:start:before`. Ultimately we decided to not support such functionality at the moment.
